Call for Evidence

Source: https://s3-eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/lawcom-prod-storage-11jsxou24uy7q/uploads/2022/11/DAOs-Call-for-Evidence-LC.pdf

Key: (q) = Question; (a) = Answer

Question 1 - Glossary

1.1 (q) Please provide comments on the glossary entries and provide additional and / or alternative entries where appropriate

1.1 (a)

Question 2 - Chapter 2: What is a DAO?

2.1 (q) To assist in our understanding of the different crypto-token ecosystem functions performed by various participants, please provide feedback on the high-level descriptions in Chapter 2.

2.1 (a)

Question 3 - Chapter 2: What is a DAO?

3.1 (q) We recognise that there is no singular, authoritative understanding of what a DAO is. However, please explain how you understand each of the individual descriptors of a DAO: (1) decentralised; (2) autonomous; and (3) organisation. 

3.1 (a)

Question 4 - Chapter 2: What is a DAO?

4.1 (q) Are you aware of any DAOs that use the jurisdiction of England and Wales and / or the law of England and Wales as part of their organisational structuring 
arrangements? If so, please provide details, including the purpose of the DAO and how it utilises the law of this jurisdiction.

4.1 (a)

Question 5 - Chapter 3: The starting point: DAOs as unincorporated associations or general partnerships?

5.1 (q) In this question we are interested in the legal treatment of a DAO which has not taken any of the additional steps that we discuss in this call for evidence, for example either structuring itself with a variety of incorporated or unincorporated entities or using decentralising elements. Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or 
based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience. We note that respondents might choose to answer this question more widely in the context of the discussion set out in Chapters 4 and 5 on how DAOs 
seek to modify the general starting point. In this respect, see also Question 21.

5.1 (a)

5.2 (q) Do you agree that the general starting point for DAOs might be that they are characterised as an unincorporated association, or a general partnership under the law of England and Wales?

5.2 (a)

5.3 (q) How common do you think it is for DAOs to meet the criteria to be characterised as an unincorporated association? In particular: (1) Do many DAOs currently in existence or contemplation fulfil the following criteria:(a) the DAO consists of two or more persons with a common purpose other than making a profit; (b) the DAO is governed by rules, including in relation to how participantscan join and leave; (c) the DAO is non-temporary, so continues to exist even as its participation changes; and(d) the DAO has no distinct legal personality?(2) Are there any aspects of a DAO’s operations which make it unlikely that it would be characterised as an unincorporated association? (3) Do you have examples of any other aspects of a DAO’s structure or operations that might suggest the existence of an unincorporated association? 

5.3 (a)

5.4 (q) How common do you think it is for DAOs to meet the criteria to be characterised as general partnerships as described from paragraph 3.17 of this call for evidence? In particular: (1) Do many DAOs currently in existence or contemplation fulfil the following criteria: (a) the DAO is a business; (b) the participants within a DAO are acting together for their mutual benefit; and (c) the participants participate in the DAO with a view of profit? (2) Are there any aspects of a DAO’s operations which make it unlikely that it would be characterised as a general partnership? (3) Do you have examples of any other aspects of a DAO’s structure or operations that might suggest the existence of a general partnership?

5.4 (a) 

Question 6 - Chapter 3: The starting point: DAOs as unincorporated associations or general partnerships?

6.1 (q) Please identify any problems that the current law in England and Wales presents forthe use of trust arrangements as a constituent part of a DAO’s overall organisational structuring.

6.2 (a) 

Question 7 - Chapter 3: The starting point: DAOs as unincorporated associations or general partnerships?

7.1 (q) Do you consider that the current law in England and Wales presents any problems relating to the use of joint ownership arrangements as a constituent part of a DAO’s overall organisational structuring? If so, how? 

7.1 (a) 

Question 8 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

8.1 (q) Do you consider that the current law in England and Wales relating to the formation of bodies corporate presents problems for those DAOs that choose to use an 
incorporated entity as part of its organisational structuring? If so: (1) Do you have examples, or specific evidence, of those problems? (2) What could be done to solve those problems?

8.1 (a) 

Question 9 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

9.1 (q) What are the biggest benefits of using incorporation as part of its organisational structuring that might lead a DAO to consider this option?

9.1 (a) 

Question 10 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

10.1 (q) Why would a DAO choose not to use incorporation as part of its organisational structuring (in England and Wales, or elsewhere)?

10.1 (a) 

10.2 (q) Where a DAO does choose to use incorporation as part of its organisational structuring, are there any requirements or ongoing obligations, such as reporting,that are challenging for the incorporated entity to comply with as part of a DAO?

10.2 (a) 

Question 11 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

11.1 (q) Can you provide any specific examples of DAOs using an incorporated legal form as part of their organisational structuring in England and Wales? If so:(1) Please describe what motivated the DAO’s participants to use incorporation. (2) What was the chosen legal form and why? (3) Please explain the relationship between the various DAO participants and the incorporated legal form. (4) Please specify what features of the incorporated legal form were beneficial and in what situations.

11.1 (a)

11.2 (q) Please explain whether any or all of the available existing legal forms are unsuitable or unattractive for those DAOs that wish to use them as part of their organisational structuring.

11.2 (a)

Question 12 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

12.1 (q) Are there jurisdictions other than England and Wales that provide a legislative approach to legal forms that is more effective or attractive for use by DAOs? Please include practical examples in your response to the extent possible. If there are advantages, please explain how the structure led to the choice of that jurisdiction.

12.1 (a) 

12.2 (q) What are the advantages and disadvantages of those other jurisdictions, legal regimes or legal forms for DAOs in arranging their organisational structuring?Please include practical examples in your response to the extent possible. If there are advantages, please explain how the structure led to the choice of that jurisdiction. 

12.2 (a) 

Question 13 - Chapter 4: The use by DAOs of centralising structural elements

13.1 (q) Do you consider that England and Wales could or should introduce a new form ofentity or recognition specifically tailored to DAOs? If so, please explain why this would be helpful for DAOs and how such an entity could be structured (including the potential trade-offs of formalising such an entity). 

13.1 (a) 

Question 14 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

14.1 (q) Do you think that the concept of decentralisation (and / or sufficient decentralisation) could usefully be refined, clarified or applied under the law of England and Wales? If so, please explain why and how, and give examples. 

14.1 (a) 

Question 15 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

15.1 (q) To assist in our understanding of the use of crypto-tokens by DAOs, please provide further information on whether software protocol-specified tokens are designed to confer similar rights on holders to the holding of share capital in a business, or equivalent to the holding of a partnership interest in a business.

15.1 (a)

15.2 (q) Do you consider that it is appropriate for holders of software protocol-specified tokens to be liable to users of the DeFi Protocols in which they hold tokens? Please explain your answer by reference to particular types of software protocol-specified tokens. Do you consider that the law of England and Wales could provide greater legal clarity on these issues? If so, how?

15.2 (a)

Question 16 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

16.1 (q) Please describe how you characterise the relationship between (i) DAOs; (ii) developers and / or incorporated companies (or other legal forms or incorporated entities) involved in software development; (ii) software protocols based on opensource code

16.1 (a)

16.2 (q) What are the legal uncertainties and / or risks that you consider are inherent in this characterisation?

16.2 (a)

16.3 (q) Do you consider that it is ever appropriate (and if so, in what circumstances) for developers of open-source code for software protocols / blockchain protocols to owe of duties of care and / or fiduciary duties to users of those software protocols?

16.3 (a)

16.4 (q) How important is legal certainty with respect to the scope of duties of care and / or fiduciary duties of developers of open-source code for software protocols / blockchain protocols for DAOs and their participants?

16.4 (a)

16.5 (q) Do you consider that greater legal clarity could be provided on these issues? If so, in what areas or respects?

16.5 (a)

Question 17 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements 

17.1 (Q) Please provide further input on whether, and if so how, DAOs use smart legal contracts.

17.1 (a)

17.2 (Q) Please describe your view on the nature of the relationship between a user and an (open-source) smart contract / software protocol that can be interacted with by anyone in the public market. In particular, please provide your view on whether such relationships can be properly regarded as constituting smart legal contracts as between a user and (i) a DAO; and / or (ii) a software protoco

17.2 (a)

17.3 (Q) Please also set out any areas in which you consider that the law of England and Wales could provide greater legal clarity on the use of smart legal contracts by DAOs.

17.3 (a)

Question 18 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

18.1 (Q) How do you consider that the privacy of users and participants could or should be protected where organisational structures and market systems rely on open-source code and publicly accessible transactional data? Please also set out any areas in which you consider that the law of England and Wales could provide greater legal clarity in this respect.

18.1 (a)

Question 19 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

19.1 (Q) Are there any circumstances in which a smart contract (or collection of smart contracts) / a software protocol could (or should) be treated as having legal personality? Please explain your answer and set out any areas in which you consider that the law of England and Wales could provide greater legal clarity in this respect.

19.1 (a)

Question 20 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

20.1 (Q) How does / should the distinction between an incorporated company (or other legal form or incorporated entity) involved in software development and an open-source software protocol (each associated with a particular DAO) operate as a matter of law?

20.1 (a)

20.2 (Q) Could the law of England and Wales help to add legal certainty to the structuring of such arrangements? If so, how?

20.2 (a)

Question 21 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

21.1 (Q) Do you consider that there is a real risk that a DAO that is structured to ensure that the features described in paragraph 5.72 are not present could be characterised (or re-characterised) as a general partnership under the law of England and Wales? Please explain your reasoning.

21.1 (a)

21.2 (Q) Do you think that this characterisation (or re-characterisation) is appropriate for those DAOs that are structured to ensure that such features are not present? If not, why not?

21.2 (a)

21.3 (Q) Do you consider that the law of England and Wales could provide greater legal clarity on this issue?

21.3 (a)

Question 22 - Chapter 5: The use by DAOs of decentralising structural elements

22.1 (Q) Please explain any other practical and legal structuring tools that DAOs use in both their blockchain based and non-blockchain based activities. If possible, please explain how you see these techniques interacting with principles of private law (including those discussed in Chapter 5).

22.1 (a)

Question 23 - Chapter 6: Practicalities of operating a DAO under the law of England and Wales

23.1 (q) How do DAOs (or the constituent parts thereof) structure their governance and decision-making processes? Please provide examples, including (if possible) where such processes have worked and have not worked.

23.1 (a) 

23.2 (q) Does the law of England and Wales hinder the ability for DAOs to structure their governance or decision-making processes in ways most appropriate for the DAO in question?

23.2 (a) 

Question 24 - Chapter 6: Practicalities of operating a DAO under the law of England and Wales

24.1 (q) How do DAOs (or the constituent parts thereof) assess their tax obligations and (if relevant) residence for tax purposes? Are there any particular areas of uncertaintyfor DAOs currently operating in the market? Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

24.1 (a) 

24.2 (q) Are there any ways in which the taxation regime and tax consequences for DAOs (or the constituent parts thereof) could be simplified and / or improved?Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

24.2 (a) 

Question 25 - Chapter 6: Practicalities of operating a DAO under the law of England and Wales

25.1 (q) Do you consider that anti-money laundering regulations apply to DAOs (or one or more of their constituent elements)? In particular: (1) Do many DAOs (or one or more of their constituent elements) currently in existence or contemplation fulfil any of the following criteria: (a) the DAO (or one or more of its constituent elements) is a “cryptoasset exchange provider” or “custodian wallet provider”; and (b) the DAO (or one or more of its constituent elements) is carrying on business in the United Kingdom? (2) In relation to the activities undertaken by DAOs, should different interpretative approaches be taken between “making arrangements with a view to” in the context of the RAO and the MLRs 2017? (3) If “making arrangements with a view to” under the MLRs 2017 is interpreted using the same approach as that under the RAO, what would be the impact on DAOs based in the UK? (4) Are there any aspects of a DAO (or one or more of its constituent elements) which would make it more or less likely that anti-money laundering regulations would apply? 

25.1 (a) 

25.2 (q) To the extent that anti-money laundering regulations do apply, are any of the requirements particularly challenging for a DAO to comply with (for example, whether, given the nature of the entity, how and what they would be able to register)? If so: (1) Do you have examples, or specific evidence, of those challenges? (2) What could be done to solve those challenges, including by reference to the use of novel technology to achieve the same policy goals? (3) Where DAOs replicate the activities of those subject to the MLRs, do you consider that it is appropriate to treat DAOs similarly to other “businesses” subject to the MLRs? If not, please explain why. (4) What steps do DAOs take to make users and participants aware of any potential risks of interacting with either a DAO or an open-source software protocol and to help inform their decision-making? Please explain whether your answers are based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

25.2 (a) 

Question 26 - Chapter 6: Practicalities of operating a DAO under the law of England and Wales

26.1 (q) Please describe any particular areas of regulatory uncertainty for DAOs currently operating in the market. Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

26.1 (a) 

26.2 (q) Please describe any situations where DAOs face regulatory issues that are particularly challenging for those DAOs to comply with or where the current law presents challenges, difficulties or opportunities for DAOs. Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

26.2 (a) 

26.3 (q) Are there any ways in which the applicable regulatory regime and practical consequences for DAOs (or the constituent parts thereof) could be simplified and / or improved? Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

26.3 (a) 

26.4 (q) How do DAOs currently determine questions at to the jurisdiction applicable to them for regulatory purposes? Please explain whether your answer is based on general knowledge of DAOs or based on specific examples of DAOs of which you have first-hand knowledge or experience.

26.4 (a) 

Question 27 - Chapter 6: Practicalities of operating a DAO under the law of England and Wales

27.1 (q) We welcome suggestions from stakeholders as to other issues which should be included in our scoping study. For each issue, we would be grateful for the following information: (1) a summary of the issue / problem; (2) an explanation of why the issue needs to be considered. For example, problems that it causes / could potentially cause to DAOs in practice; and (3) suggestions as to what could be done to address the issue, and any evidence of the costs and benefits of the solution. 

27.1 (a) 
